ART 101. Signifying Practices: Art and Visual Culture. 4 hours.
Introduction to theoretical perspectivs for analyzing experiences of visual and multi-modal phenomena. Strategies for researching and writing about topics related to contemporary aesthetic practices. Course Information: Field trips required at a nominal fee. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 112. Introduction to Drawing. 4 hours.
Introduction to drawing: orientation to the description and expressive potential of drawing through exposure to a variety of subjects, media, and formal concepts. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 102. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Course Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory. Creative Arts course.

ART 116. The Science and History of Sound in the Arts. 3 hours.
Investigates the physical properties of sound and their application in the arts. Students will explore sound as described through mathematics, physics, and acoustics fundamental principles. Course Information: Same as ART 116. Extensive computer use required. Field work required.

ART 130. Introduction to Painting + Color. 4 hours.
Beginning painting: introduction to major directions of contemporary painting; underlying historical precedents; orientation to subjects and formal concepts using relevant materials and process. Course Information: Field Trip required at a nominal fee. Course Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll for one Lecture and one Laboratory. Creative Arts course.

ART 140. Introduction to Sculpture. 4 hours.
The study of major directions and underlying historical precedents in contemporary sculpture. Orientation to concepts of 3-dimensionality through use of relevant processes and heuristic approaches to making. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 140. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Course Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory. Creative Arts course.

ART 150. Introduction to New Media Arts. 4 hours.
An introduction to the theory and practice of responsive arts. Through hands-on exercises, students learn to design interactive interfaces and responsive environments. Survey lectures focus on current practices and the history of new media. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 100. Extensive computer use required. Course Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory. Creative Arts course.

ART 160. Introduction to Digital Photography. 4 hours.
Introduction to digital photography: basic familiarity with camera, photographic techniques, Photoshop, low level lighting and high end printing. Includes social, cultural, critical and aesthetic considerations of the medium. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 150. Extensive computer use required. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Fully manual Digital Camera and laptop computer with appropriate Photoshop software is required. Course Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory. Creative Arts course.

ART 170. Introduction to Moving Image. 4 hours.
Introduction to the practice, history and context of the moving image. Basic experimentation with image/sound capture and editing as related to film, video and audio. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 170. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Course Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory. Creative Arts course.

ART 190. Introduction to Socially Engaged Art. 4 hours.
Introduces the concept of socially engaged art, a practice that blurs the line between art and life, emphasizing participation, dialogue, and action. Includes field visits and dialogue with artists. Students design and realize a public art project. Course Information: 3 hours. Previously listed as AD 190. Field trips required at a nominal fee. No previous art and studio experience is necessary for this class. Field Trips Required: Mess Hall, Dorchester Projects and Rebuild Foundation, Threewalls, Hyde Park Art Center, Experimental Station, and South Side Community Art Center, are all site-specific resources for this course. Students will visit at least two of these sites as part of their analysis and exploration of socially engaged art practices. Prerequisite(s): ENGL 160. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture-Discussion and one Practice. Creative Arts course.

ART 212. Topics in Drawing I. 4 hours.
This course addresses current practices and theories in drawing. The course is an investigation of drawing as a vehicle by which to explore a variety of media. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 203. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above; or consent of the instructor; and completion of the art foundation program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 230. Topics in Painting I. 4 hours.
Direct experience and related readings investigate innovations and major directions in contemporary painting. The instructor directs in-depth focus regarding a specific topic or emphasis. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 230. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above; or consent of the instructor; and completion of art foundation program.

ART 240. Topics in Sculpture I. 4 hours.
Specific topics, designed by the instructor, address current practices and theories in sculpture and installation. The course is an investigation of sculptural practices as a vehicle by which to explore a variety of media. Course Information: May be repeated to a maximum of 8 hours. Field trip required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above and completion of art foundation program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 250. Topics in New Media Arts: Intermediate. 4 hours.
Concentration course in New Media Art. Students create artwork with new media technologies, interactive installations, software and computer animation. Includes social, cultural, critical and aesthetic considerations of new media. Course Information: May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above and completion of the art foundation program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 260. Topics in Digital Photography. 4 hours.
Intermediate digital phography: specific topics designed by instructor, conceptual/contextual image making, familiarity with camera, photographic techniques, Photoshop, basic lights techniques and high end printing. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 267. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Extensive computer use required. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above and completion of the first-year art foundation program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 261. Topics in Analog Photography. 4 hours.
Introduction to analog black and white photography: advance familiarity with camera, photographic techniques, printing and basic lighting. The course is an investigation of analog photography. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 268. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above; or consent of instructor; and completion of the first-year art foundation program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 270. Topics in Film I. 4 hours.
An introduction to 16mm film production in theory and practice. Assignments, screenings, discussions and readings related to experimental cinema supplement topics such as: cinematography, editing, composition and cameraless film making. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 271. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above and completion of the art foundation program. Class Schedule Information: To be registered properly, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 272. Topics in Video I. 4 hours.
An intermediate video production course in theory and practice. Assignments, screenings, discussions, and readings related to video art as well as technical skills needed for production and post-production. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 278. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above; or consent of instructor; and completion of the art foundation program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 274. Topics in Motion Graphics I. 4 hours.
Introduction to basic film/video animation techniques including direct animation, stop-motion, cycles, metamorphosis, and special graphic processes and effects. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 274. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above and completion of the art foundation program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 275. Topics in Screenwriting. 4 hours.
Project-based course is an introduction to screenwriting. Students learn the principles of substance, structure and style and how to write in proper script format. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 275. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or abaove; or cnsent of the instructor; and completion of the art foundation program.

ART 280. Topics in Color. 4 hours.
Course presents a wide range of historical and contemporary color theories and investigates color in terms of color science, reproduction and communication. Provides a conceptual framework for approaching color and working knowledge of its attributes. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 209. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above and completion of the Art Foundation Program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 312. Topics in Drawing II. 4 hours.
Topics directed by the instructor; may include individual study and related readings in contemporary art; further investigation and extended applications in drawing. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 304. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): ART 212; and junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 330. Topics in Painting II. 4 hours.
In-depth focus regarding a specific topic/emphasis under the direction of the instructor; direct experience and related readings investigate innovations and major directions in contemporary painting. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 332. May be repeated to a maximum of 12 hours. Prerequisite(s): ART 230; and junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 340. Topics in Sculpture II. 4 hours.
Specific topics--designed by the instructor--address current practices and theories in sculpture and installation. The course is an investigation of sculptural practice as a vehicle by which to explore a variety of media. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 342. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): ART 240; and junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 350. Advanced Topics in New Media Arts. 4 hours.
Concentration course in New Media Art. Students create artwork with new media technologies, interactive installations, software and computer animation. Includes social, cultural, critical and aesthetic considerations of new media. Course Information: May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): ART 250. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 360. Topics in Photography. 4 hours.
Direct experience and related readings investigate innovations and major directions in contemporary photography. The instructor directs in-depth focus regarding a specific topic or emphasis. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 360. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours. Extensive computer use required. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): ART 260; and junior standing or above; and consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 362. Topics in Photography: View Camera and Lighting Studio. 4 hours.
View Camera control applied to interiors and exteriors, set-up and lighting of people and still life subjects, and other artistic considerations. Direct experience and related readings investigate innovative and major directions in contemporary photo. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 262. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Extensive computer use required. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): Junior standing or above and completion of Art Foundation Program. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 370. Topics in Film II. 4 hours.
An advanced 16mm production course that uses screenings, readings, and discussions of experimental film to supplement such practical topics as sync-sound recording, color film, digital editing of 16mm film, and post-production techniques. Course Informaion: Previously listed as AD 371. Prerequisite(s): ART 270; and junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 372. Topics in Video II. 4 hours.
A topics-based project-oriented course that emphasizes advanced media production in the areas of 16mm film, video, motion graphics, and sound. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 378. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): ART 272; and junior standing or above; or consent of the instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 374. Topics in Motion Graphics II. 4 hours.
Applications of advanced methods in film/video post-production graphics. Creative projects utilizing sound synchronization, computer motion synthesis, and related techniques. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 374. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): ART 274; and junior standing or above. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 376. Topics in Audio. 4 hours.
Audio production for film, video and sound artists. Study of basic recording, mixing and dissemination techniques and contemporary/historical overview of how artists engage with audio. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 276. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): Sophomore standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 380. Topics Seminar. 4 hours.
Seminar and discussion with focus on specific topics relevant to contemporary art practice, examined in relation to critical readings, research, and writing. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 391. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): AH 160. Open only to juniors and seniors. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 381. Topics in Documentary Media. 4 hours.
Specific topics varying each semester will address current practices and theories in documentary media. The mechanical reproduction applied to recording, documenting, and interpreting real life situations and events. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 362. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours. Extensive computer use required. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): ART 270 and ART 370; or ART 272 and ART 372; or ART 260 and ART 261; and junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 382. Topics in Art. 4 hours.
Multidisciplinary art making course based on a topic chosen by instructor. Course consists of art production and written assignments, lecture, class critiques and individual meetings. Course Information: May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours. Field trips required at a nominal fee. Prerequisite(s): Junior standing or above. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 401. Senior Projects: Critique. 6 hours.
Critique/discussion for advanced art majors. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 462. Prerequisite(s): Senior standing or above; and consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be registered properly, students must enroll in one Laboratory-Discussion and one Conference.

ART 402. Senior Projects: Thesis. 6 hours.
Exhibition/thesis production and seminar culminating in an exhibition/final thesis show for graduating seniors. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 453. Prerequisite(s): ART 401; and senior standing or above; and consent of the instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Laboratory-Discussion and one Conference.

ART 452. Informational Aesthetics I. 4 hours.
Introduction to information visualization and programming in the context of art and design. Project oriented course using computer code and custom software for information analysis, representation and creative expression. Course Information: Same as DES 452. 4 hours. May be repeated to a maximum of 8 hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): DES 319 or DES 322 and sophomore standing or above; or consent of the instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 453. Informational Aesthetics II. 4 hours.
Intermediate course emphyasizing the database as cultural form. Creative projects and research in information aesthetics through date driven two, three and four dimensional visualizations and custom computer interfaces. Course Information: Same as DES 453. 4 hours. May be repeated for maximum of 8 hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): DES 452 or ART 452 and junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 454. 3D Space I: Modeling. 4 hours.
Introduction to 3D modeling, texturing, lighting and rendering. Students develop a cross-media skill set that can be used for visualizing sculptural and/or architectural installations, filmic animation and compositing, gaming and object design. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 454. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): Consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 455. 3D Space II: Animation. 4 hours.
Continuation of 3D Space I: Modeling. Includes a focus on environment design with advanced texturing, lighting, rendering and particles. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 455. May be repeated for maximum of 8 hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): ART 454; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 456. Embedded Media: Physical Computing. 4 hours.
A practical and conceptual exploration into electronic sensors, processors and actuators as applied to interactive media. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 456. Extensive computer use is required. Prerequisite(s): AD 205; and junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 457. Interactive 3D. 4 hours.
An introduction to real-time ineractive art theory and to the design and production practices used in creating 3D applications for games and the web. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 457. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): Junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 458. Advanced Interactive 3D. 4 hours.
Advanced theory and practice of real-time interactive art and producing 3D applications for games and the web. Conceptualization, planning, and development of interactive 3D and virtual reality environments. Course Information: Previously listed as AD 458. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): ART 457; and junior standing or above; or consent of instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Lecture and one Laboratory.

ART 480. Independent Study in Art. 0-5 hours.
Intensive workshops in specific art related topics and techniques directed and announced by the instructor. Course Information: 1 to 4 undergraduate hours. 2 to 5 graduate hours. May be repeated. Previously listed as AD 406. Prerequisite(s): Junior or graduate standing; and consent of the instructor. Class Schedule Information: To be properly registered, students must enroll in one Laboratory and one Lecture.

ART 499. Art Internship. 0-4 hours.
Introduction to professional practice offering students the opportunity to couple academic learning with professional experience in an off-campus placement. Course Information: Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory grading only. May be repeated. Only 8 hours of credit may apply toward Art major requirements. Requirements for the organization offering an internship: understanding/agreement that a student intern is an artist in training (not a volunteer, not a freelancer) positions are paid (at or above federal minimum wage) student is seeking professional experience (not a portfolio piece) setting is a studio environment (the student is not the only artist on site) 15 hours per week expected, 20 hours per week maximum. Prerequisite(s): Approval of the Department.
